# Diagnostic Modality Integration API
The Diagnostic Modality Integration API (DMI API) provides common workflows and standardized resource formats for interacting with multiple diagnostic providers through a single interface, by handling all the work specific to each provider and helping partners integrate in a flexible way.

## Concepts
The following concepts are used throughout the documentation and are building blocks for the API:

- **Partner** — Developer or system (usually a PIMS) that wants to integrate with a set of diagnostic providers.
- **Provider** — A diagnostic provider that accepts test orders, performs observations and delivers reports.
- **Organization** — A logical grouping within a partner's domain that managers users and practices.
- **Admin User** — A system-provided administrator user with privileges to provision API users. 
- **User** — A user of the API which is owner of or is member of an organization.
- **Practice** — A clinical practice, lab or hospital belonging to the organization.
- **Provider Configuration** — Configuration options for the integration of an organization and a specific provider. Provider configurations can be reused between different practices belonging to the organization.
- **Integration** — Integration options between a practice and a provider.
- **Order** — Requisition of diagnostic tests to be performed on a patient, requested by a veterinarian's practice.
- **Patient**  — The subject of the ordered tests, usually a pet.
- **Client** — The paying customer of the practice, usually the owner of the pet.
- **Veterinarian** — The medical professional that orders and interprets the diagnostic tests.
- **Report** — The findings and interpretations of diagnostic tests performed on patients, generated by an order.

In summary:

A **Partner** needs to integrate with a diagnostic modality **Provider**. An **Admin User** provision **Users** that manage **Organizations** and their **Practices**. Then **Provider Configurations** are created for each Provider the Organization wants to connect to and connects Practices to Providers through an **Integration**. **Orders** for diagnostic tests can be ordered through the API, which eventually will generate a diagnostic **Report** with the findings.

To understand how the API is designed and more about its features see the [Getting Started](getting-started.md) section.
